why am I talking about this?
  - we all know / are learning what is cool about ruby
  - I arbitrarily propose that languages differ more by their cultural problems 
    than by their cool points. (I won't try to prove this).

language:
  - aliased methods (reduce / inject, etc)
    bloat the docs
    confuse the code
  - too many methods!
    (but sometimes I want them)
  - no real constants
    is it a decision, or something to do with the architecture?
  - no increment / decrement operators
    probably a feature
  - no easy method to pass two anonymous blocks to a method.
    This is why lispers sneer at us

culture:
  - Those who do not study Unix will be condemned to repeat it!
    insular mindset - ruby infrastructure recreates *nix - not make, apt-get, man
    users shouldn't need to care what language you write in 
    - rake v make
      "Only have to know ruby, not make" - rake a subset of ruby
      But I need make for other things - instead rake is a 2nd dsl to learn
      can be verbose compared to make
      encourages functional / imperative rather than logic
    - rvm / gem / bundle vs *nix package managers
      ignoring PMs generates conflicts (see non-system rubys and readline)
      seems oriented towards programmers (who wish to have many parallel installs)
        vs users (who would like to simply install a package)
    - man pages
      standard gem pattern does install "correctly" (since per-user)
      most gems don't have them
      no infrastructure for them (md2man, etc?)
    - hot comments
      http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?HotComments  
      ruby *has* rd - why are we using comments for documentation?
  - Rails is poisonous
    "magic" should not be taken as a complement
    people think Rails == ruby
    focus on web-dev leads to... (PM / man page stuff discussed above)
    so many files, the only practical VC is "git add ."
  - Mac-centric
    (core team has done a fine job of keeping things portable)
    blogs seem to always say "brew install" and "System Preferences"
    OS X a fine media and creative platform, but...
    expensive per machine, and frequent hardware upgrades
      (where "frequent" means "more often than every 10 years")
    so not feasible for developing world, or developed world lower class.

13 minutes 2014-07-18 10:01 AM
